```java
/**
 * AggregateFunction is the superclass of two aggregation function interfaces:
 *
 *  - [[ImperativeAggregate]] is for aggregation functions that are specified in terms of
 *    initialize(), update(), and merge() functions that operate on Row-based aggregation buffers.
 *  - [[DeclarativeAggregate]] is for aggregation functions that are specified using
 *    Catalyst expressions.
 *
 * In both interfaces, aggregates must define the schema ([[aggBufferSchema]]) and attributes
 * ([[aggBufferAttributes]]) of an aggregation buffer which is used to hold partial aggregate
 * results. At runtime, multiple aggregate functions are evaluated by the same operator using a
 * combined aggregation buffer which concatenates the aggregation buffers of the individual
 * aggregate functions.
 *
 * Code which accepts [[AggregateFunction]] instances should be prepared to handle both types of
 * aggregate functions.
 */
abstract class AggregateFunction extends Expression {
}
```

## `ImperativeAggregate`

API for aggregation functions that are expressed in terms of imperative `initialize()`, `update()`, and `merge()` functions which operate on Row-based aggregation buffers.

Within these functions, code should access fields of the **mutable aggregation buffer** by adding the **bufferSchema-relative field** number to `mutableAggBufferOffset` then using this new field number to access the buffer Row. This is necessary because this aggregation function's buffer is embedded inside of a larger shared aggregation buffer when an aggregation operator evaluates multiple aggregate functions at the same time. 

We need to perform similar field number arithmetic when merging multiple intermediate aggregate buffers together in `merge()` (in this case, use `inputAggBufferOffset` when accessing the input buffer). 

Correct `ImperativeAggregate` evaluation depends on the correctness of `mutableAggBufferOffset` and `inputAggBufferOffset`, but not on the correctness of the attribute ids in `aggBufferAttributes` and `inputAggBufferAttributes`. 

###  `mutableAggBufferOffset`

The offset of this function's first buffer value in the underlying shared mutable aggregation buffer. 

For example, we have two aggregate functions avg(x) and avg(y), which share the same aggregation buffer. In this shared buffer, the position of the first buffer value of avg(x) will be 0 and the position of the first buffer value of avg(y) will be 2:

```java
/*
            avg(x) mutableAggBufferOffset = 0
                  |
                  v
                  +--------+--------+--------+--------+
                  |  sum1  | count1 |  sum2  | count2 |
                  +--------+--------+--------+--------+
                                    ^
                                    |
                     avg(y) mutableAggBufferOffset = 2
*/                     
```

### `inputAggBufferOffset`

The offset of this function's start buffer value in the underlying shared input aggregation buffer. An input aggregation buffer is used when we merge two aggregation buffers together in the update() function and is immutable (we merge an input aggregation buffer and a mutable aggregation buffer and then store the new buffer values to the mutable aggregation buffer). 

An input aggregation buffer may contain extra fields, such as grouping keys, at its start, so mutableAggBufferOffset and inputAggBufferOffset are often different. 

For example, say we have a grouping expression, key, and two aggregate functions, avg(x) and avg(y). In the shared input aggregation buffer, the position of the first buffer value of avg(x) will be 1 and the position of the first buffer value of avg(y) will be 3 (position 0 is used for the value of key):

```java
/*
          avg(x) inputAggBufferOffset = 1
                   |
                   v
          +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
          |  key   |  sum1  | count1 |  sum2  | count2 |
          +--------+--------+--------+--------+--------+
                                     ^
                                     |
                       avg(y) inputAggBufferOffset = 3
*/
```



## `PhysicalAggregation`

An extractor used when planning the physical execution of an aggregation. Compared with a logical aggregation, the following transformations are performed:
 - Unnamed grouping expressions are named so that they can be referred to across phases of aggregation **命名未命名的分组表达式，以便可以跨聚合阶段引用它们**
 - Aggregations that appear multiple times are deduplicated. **消除多次出现的聚合函数**。
 - The computation of the aggregations themselves is separated from the final result. For example, the `count` in `count + 1` will be split into an [[AggregateExpression]] and a final computation that computes `count.resultAttribute + 1`. 聚合本身的计算与最终结果分离。例如，`count+1` 中的 `count` 将被拆分为一个`AggregateExpression` 和一个计算 `count.resultAttribute+1` 的最终计算。

